Q5. Describe the process of contributing to any open source project on GitHub in a step-by-step manner.

Solution:- Contributing to an open-source project on GitHub is a great way to get involved in the developer community and gain experience. Here's a step-by-step guide to help you through the process:

1. Find a Project: Start by identifying an open-source project that you're interested in contributing to. You can use platforms like 
GitHub to explore projects based on language, topic, or other criteria.

2. Read the project's contribution guidelines: Most projtcts have a contribution guidelines document that explains how to contribute to 
that project. This document will tell you what kind of contributions are welcome, how to format your code, and how to submit your changes.

3. Fork the Repository: On the project's GitHub page, click the "Fork" button in the upper-right corner. This creates a copy (fork) of the project in your own GitHub account.

4. Clone the Repository: Go to your forked repository on GitHub and click the "Code" button. Copy the URL.
Open your terminal/command prompt and use the git clone command followed by the copied URL to download a local copy of the repository to your computer.

5. Create a New Branch: In your terminal, navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository. 
Create a new branch for your contribution using the `git checkout -b branch-name` command. Replace branch-name with a descriptive name for your branch (e.g., "feature-add-new-feature").

6. Make Changes: Make the necessary changes to the codebase using your preferred text editor or IDE.

7. Commit Changes: Once you've made your changes, use the following Git commands to stage and commit your changes.
    `git add file_name1 file_name2`
    `git commit -m "Add a descriptive message in present imperative tense"`

8. Push Changes to your Fork: Use `git push origine branch-name` command to push your changes to your forked repository

9. Create a Pull Request (PR): A pull request is a way to request that your changes be merged into the main codebase. To create a pull request, click on thr Pull Request button on your fork's page.

10. Wait for Review and Merge: The project maintainers will review your pull request. If they are satisfied with your contribution, they will merge it into the main project.